we look at the science behind some of
the most important questions in life
and today we're talking about can video
games be good for you this guy is not
a scam okay i mean if one of you in the
audience
were to write in saying to me that this
guy was a scam
i'd be really offended because i made a
list
of like 10 different things that raise a
red flag for someone
being a scam artist and he's only got
like eight of them
going on and another thing i mean like
not to be
homophobic and like not to say that i'm
not homophobic
because i mean if i am that has nothing
to do with it but
it kind of it kind of rankles me that
this guy is a so-called
gynecologist like i kind of feel like
he's treading on my territory here
because like in offering this commentary
on video game addiction
i mean i may not know video games but i
know vagina
okay and i mean i mean i mean i mean i
mean i mean
i mean yeah i'm out of adjectives
i want to look at the evidence to see
whether there are actually any benefits
of
playing video games firstly we've got
evidence that video games improve our
memory
and our visual navigational skills this
2015 study from the university of
california
compared gamers vs non-gamers the first
group played super mario 64 a 3d game
the second group played angry birds 2d
game and the third group didn't play any
games at all
and they found that in those who
practiced the 3d game for half an hour a
day
they had improved performance on certain
memory tasks dude
this is like the single most legitimate
use of scientific method like you
find something you know is bad and
filthy and evil and wrong in your life
and then you google search to try to
find excuses to justify it like
i can be smart like a gynecologist too
look at me
i googled around for um articles proving
that alcohol consumption is associated
with higher intelligence check this out
people with high iq
drink more alcohol don't don't read the
rest of the article
that's it just the first sentence yeah
you see how it says although you don't
want to know what it says after that
okay
hey i found this great excuse for my own
[ __ ] bad habits i'm ashamed of myself
i feel bad
i know how to use google to shore up
excuses for my
ego science baby science
very dull people engage in binge
drinking
less than once a year in sharp contrast
to quote very bright
people so so so so so so
so yeah binge drinking binge drinking
positively associated
with higher levels of intelligence don't
read the rest of the article oh and
guess what it turns
out he didn't read the article himself
either he claims
that video games improve memory
and they don't even the article
he was quoting himself does
not prove that they say on the contrary
that the null hypothesis was confirmed
with their two
main tests of memory improvement
read the details if you want to guess
what this is the internet this is
youtube
this is where people come to lie and to
make
money by telling you things that are
maybe half
true at most that you want to hear
doctors do it doctors do it all the time
doctors tell you that drinking alcohol
is good for you they tell you that
eating
red meat is good for you they tell you
not to worry about cholesterol they tell
you not to worry about cheating on your
wife
they'll tell you whatever the [ __ ] it is
they think
you want to hear so they can get famous
on instagram
not gonna lie oh you're gonna lie
you managed to kick off the video with
the bold statement
i'm not gonna lie and surprise surprise
the video is full of lies as a doctor
who saves lives on the regular
dude you're a gynecologist
as a doctor who saves lives on the
regular unless there's something
really wrong with the hospital in
cambridge
england you work at like maybe you're a
battlefield gynecologist in a war zone
this can't remotely be true but even if
you
were working in a war zone like
dude as a doctor who saves lives on the
regular i'll get back to the
science behind video games and cognitive
function in just a moment
but like i've known so many people who
worked
in emergency medicine i knew doctors
who were volunteering to work in
myanmar and cambodia and laos
and none of them talk like this
neither earnestly nor ironically and i
know that some of you think
that i'm using this sound clip out of
context like as if
he was just making a joke as if he was
setting up a punch line
there is no punchline
next i moisturize my face with the natio
daily moisturizer including
sun protection factor 15 of course and
spray a few sprays of allure hom
by channel channel channel
it's one of the pleasures of being a
woman the fact that he can't
pronounce the brand name chanel
normally wouldn't bother me but the
context here
is that the whole video just consists
of bragging in the guise
of humble bragging about the expensive
brand name
items he owns and uses as part of his
like
faux ghetto fabulous existence as a
cambridge uk
doc it it just makes no sense if a guy
like me
didn't know how to pronounce chanel that
would be a different thing
because i would never spend my money on
that crap
but for a guy like him who spends his
money on it
and then tries to attract instagram
followers by bragging about it like
i you know i i just felt it was worth
pointing out here
a drive away from cambridge at around
7am and arrive at the hospital around 7
50 ready for a full day of saving lives
and stamping out disease
the main point of this video that we'll
get back to in just a moment here is
that this guy
is mentally incapable of reading a
peer-reviewed
research paper or ethically incapable
reporting it to you in the audience
honestly
but yeah somehow knowing this other side
of his character that sort of does
change it for me somehow if i felt i
were
in the act of criticizing a humble
doctor who was
actually saving lives rather than
a megalomaniacal gynecologist who
recklessly boasts about daily waking up
to save
lives who just flat out lies to you
about you know how his day-to-day
existence is just
saving lives dude not not even
battlefront doctors not even the guys i
knew a guy who
went out in a helicopter to a minus site
in myanmar on the regular to do
emergency medicine in a place where
there are no hospitals like i've known
people
practicing medicine in extreme third
world conditions
none of them boast like this none of
them talk about themselves in their
lives this way
people who worked in refugee camps
people like
you have got to be kidding me and this
guy
this guy is not kidding as dawn breaks
and the clock chimes 6 30 a.m
my iphone alarm wakes me out of my
dreams of a better future for the world
when you see those commercials claiming
change your whole life with just
one simple trick you probably assume
that that kind of messaging comes from
someone who's on the brink of poverty or
employed by a heartless corporation
no no it's guys like this
this dude has either evolved or devolved
to the point
where he can with a straight face and
total sincerity
tell you that he saves lives every day
tell you that he has one simple habit
that will change your life
that he can tell you the secret to
success this dude
doesn't sell snake oil he is
snake oil he has himself become
the snake oil that he's selling secondly
we've got decent evidence that video
games help
improve our problem solving ability i
mentioned this briefly before
i'm going to mention it really briefly
now if you were going to quote this
particular
scientific study to prove the point
that playing video games improves your
memory
improves your recall ability
you would have to admit that this same
study states that their own
hypothesis was disproven was proven to
be
false again and again you can't
engage in cherry picking within one in
the same
study i'm not quoting separate research
from a separate study
to disprove what he's saying in the
bottom right corner of the screen here
i'm quoting the same study
so point one the study admits that video
game players
did not improve their memory as measured
by two different tests however it did
find that after two weeks of training
playing the video game
super mario world 3d the video gamers
improved their performance at a certain
virtual water maze task do you think do
you think this is
this is going to overturn what i already
quoted what i already showed you on
screen
do you think that the negative findings
proved to be trivial
compared to the significance of this
water maze task or do you think when you
look into the details
it's going to turn out that virtual
water maze
is really nothing other than a video
game
and all they've proven is playing 3d
video games
makes you more skilled and more adept at
playing other
3d video games
yeah that's right it's just a video game
those are screenshots
of the so-called 3d
water maze memory task
it may be the least entertaining video
game ever made
but it is a 3d video game so absolutely
nobody should be surprised that having
weeks of training
playing 3d video games would make you
more skilled
at playing a 3d video game the first
group played super mario 64
a 3d game the second group played angry
birds 2d game and the third group didn't
play any games at all
and they found that in those who
practiced the 3d game for half an hour a
day
they had improved performance on certain
memory tasks and i think he's aware that
he's lying
because he's very careful about his
wording just to say that people were
better at
certain memory tasks now i'm gonna say
to you here
i want this video to be 20 minutes long
i don't want this video to be 20 minutes
longer than it already is
i'm not summarizing for you each and
every finding within this study
but i'm being much more honest and
balanced
than he was in saying that this study
comes to more than one conclusion about
more than one type of test
and in my opinion all that it proves is
that playing video games makes you
better
at playing video games or tasks that
very
closely resemble playing video games
they had the hypothesis
that playing video games would result in
more rapid
visual processing ability and instead as
you see in bold text
we did not find any significant
differences
between the three groups in either error
rate
this same pattern plays out in a
different study
that he also cited that he also linked
to from the same video and where i also
wonder if he actually read it at all
like if he is lying knowingly
or unknowingly because again all that
this study
proved is that people who play video
games
become more adept at playing video games
or performing tasks at a computer
that very closely resemble videos again
jump to the bold text at the bottom they
were judging in the least amount of time
possible whether the dots were moving to
the right or moving to the left
again this may be the least entertaining
video game in the history of video games
but that is all
it is this doesn't show more advanced
cognition
greater intelligence greater memory or
anything
else not gonna lie this man
isn't selling you snake oil he himself
is the snake oil in this case the
process
is the product and if you trust him
you have been sold